1540_0000001923_1995_ABRAMS-INDUSTRIES-INC," ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Abrams Industries, Inc. engages in (i) construction of retail and commercial projects; (ii) manufacturing store fixtures and display units for retail outlets; and (iii) developing income-producing properties for investment or sale, and providing management services for such properties. The Company was organized under Delaware law in 1960 to succeed to the business of A. R. Abrams, Inc., which was founded in 1925 by Alfred R. Abrams as a sole proprietorship. In 1984, the Company changed its state of incorporation to Georgia. As used herein, the term ""Company"" refers to Abrams Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries and predecessors, unless the context indicates otherwise. Financial information by industry segment is set forth in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company. CONSTRUCTION SEGMENT The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Abrams Construction, Inc., has engaged in the construction business since 1925. Although the Company does work throughout much of the United States, it concentrates its activities principally in the South. Construction activities consist primarily of new construction of, expansion of, and remodeling of retail store buildings, warehouses, banks, and shopping centers. Construction contracts are obtained by competitive bid and by negotiation. Generally, purchasing of materials and services for the Company's construction operations is done on a project-by-project basis. MANUFACTURING SEGMENT The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Abrams Fixture Corporation, has engaged in manufacturing and selling store fixtures since 1946, and has been designing and producing point-of-purchase and other displays since 1975. The Company engineers and fabricates displays, check-out counters, cabinets, tables and other store fixtures of wood, metal and plastic laminate for sale primarily to several of the larger national retail store chains. Substantially all the store fixtures are fabricated to meet the customer's requirements for type, size, shape and color and are generally produced against specific orders. Abrams Fixture Corporation also produces both standardized and custom-designed point-of-purchase display units which are sold to carpet and wallcovering manufacturers, distributors, and retailers. Several types of home furnishing displays are manufactured and sold under the marketing title of Abrams International Merchandising Systems (AIMS). The Company maintains raw material inventories of items such as lumber, plywood, metals, particle board, laminates, and hardware. In the opinion of management, the raw materials and supplies utilized by this segment of the Company are available from numerous sources. REAL ESTATE SEGMENT The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Abrams Properties, Inc., has engaged in real estate development activities since 1960. These activities involve primarily the development of shopping centers in the Southeast and Midwest. Development activities include selecting, optioning and acquiring sites, preparing market studies, arranging construction financing and long-term financing, contracting for design and construction, negotiating leases and managing the property upon completion of construction. Since 1973, the principal tenant of these developed shopping centers has been Kmart Corporation. The Company develops properties for sale to others, for fees and for its own investment purposes. The Company developed and currently owns 12 shopping centers which are held as long-term investments and were developed by the Company for that purpose. See ""ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - Owned Shopping Centers"". At April 30, 1995, the Company also was lessee and manager of 10 Company-developed shopping centers which were sold and leased back by the Company for subleasing. See ""ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - Leaseback Shopping Centers"". EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS At April 30, 1995, the Company employed 142 salaried employees, which included administrative, professional, and executive personnel, 13 hourly paid foremen, and 136 hourly employees. The hourly employees at Abrams Fixture Corporation are represented by one union. On May 1, 1992, the Company and the union reached a four-year agreement concerning wages and benefits. The Company has no other union agreements. On its construction jobs, the Company utilizes local labor whenever practicable, paying the prevailing wage scale. The Company believes that its relations with its employees are good. 8 ABRAMS INDUSTRIES, INC. SEASONAL NATURE OF BUSINESS The Company's business has generally been seasonal, with the highest revenues generally occurring in the second and fourth quarters of the Company's fiscal year. This seasonal nature results primarily from the businesses of the Construction Segment and the Manufacturing Segment, which, in addition to weather factors, are affected by customers' desires generally to build or remodel retail outlets so that work will be completed by the spring or fall. The business of the Real Estate Segment is generally less seasonal. COMPETITION The businesses of the Company are highly competitive. In its construction work and store fixture and display manufacturing business, the Company competes with a large number of national and local construction companies and fixture manufacturers and suppliers, many of which have greater financial resources than the Company. The Company also competes with smaller specialized companies. The real estate development area is also extremely competitive, with numerous companies competing for available financing, sites, tenants and purchasers. PRINCIPAL CUSTOMERS During fiscal 1995, the Company derived approximately 43% ($52,708,000) of its consolidated revenues from direct transactions with The Home Depot, Inc. These revenues resulted from construction activities and sales of manufactured store fixtures. During fiscal 1995, the Company derived approximately 16% ($18,942,000) of its consolidated revenues from construction activities for Baby Superstore, Inc. Also, during fiscal 1995, the Company derived approximately 11% ($13,737,000) of its consolidated revenues from direct transactions with Kmart Corporation. These revenues resulted from store rentals (approximately $7,020,000), construction activities, and the sales of manufactured store fixtures. See ""ITEM 2. PROPERTIES"" and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company. No other single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues during the year. BACKLOG The following table indicates the backlog of contracts and orders by industry segment: The Company estimates that most of the backlog at April 30, 1995 will be completed prior to April 30, 1996. No assurance can be given as to future backlog levels or whether the Company will realize earnings from the revenues resulting from the backlog at April 30, 1995. REGULATION The Company is subject to the authority of various state and local regulatory agencies concerned with the licensing of contractors, but it has experienced no material difficulty in complying with such requirements. The Company is also subject to local zoning regulations and building codes in performing its construction and real estate activities. Management believes that it is in substantial compliance with all such governmental regulations. Management believes that compliance with federal, state and local provisions which have been enacted or adopted for regulating the discharge of materials into the environment does not have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position of the Company. 9 ABRAMS INDUSTRIES, INC. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The Executive Officers of the Company are as follows: Name and Age Positions with the Company Officer Since - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Bernard W. Abrams (70) Chairman of the Board of Directors 1952 and Chief Executive Officer Edward M. Abrams (68) Director, President and Treasurer 1953 Joseph H. Rubin (52) Director, Executive Vice President 1979 and Secretary Alan R. Abrams (40) President, Abrams Properties, Inc. 1988 since 1994. Prior to that he served as Vice President of Abrams Properties, Inc. B. Michael Merritt (45) President, Abrams Construction, Inc. 1986 since May, 1995. Prior to that he served as Executive Vice President of Abrams Construction, Inc. Richard V. Priegel (42) President, Abrams Fixture Corporation 1981 Executive Officers of the Company are elected by the Board of Directors of the Company or the Board of Directors of the respective subsidiary to serve at the pleasure of the Board. Bernard W. Abrams and Edward M. Abrams are brothers. Alan R. Abrams and J. Andrew Abrams, who serve on the Board of Directors of the Company, are sons of Edward M. Abrams and nephews of Bernard W. Abrams. There are no other family relationships between any Executive Officer or Director and any other Executive Officer or Director of the Company. "
3663_0000002186_2011_RELM-WIRELESS-CORP," Item 1. Business. General RELM Wireless Corporation (RELM) provides two-way radio communications equipment of the highest quality and reliability. In business for over 63 years, RELM (NYSE Amex: RWC) designs, manufactures and markets wireless communications products consisting of two-way land mobile radios, repeaters, base stations, and related components and subsystems. Two-way land mobile radios can be units that are hand-held (portable) or installed in vehicles (mobile). Repeaters expand the range of two-way land mobile radios, enabling them to operate over a wider area. Base station components and subsystems are installed at radio transmitter sites to improve performance by enhancing the signal and reducing or eliminating signal interference and enabling the use of one antenna for both transmission and reception. We employ both analog and digital technologies in our products. Our digital technology is compliant with the Project 25 standard of the Association of Public Communications Officials (APCO Project 25, or P-25). Our P-25 digital products and our analog products function in t he VHF (136MHz 174MHz), UHF (380MHz 470MHz, 450MHz 520MHz) and 800 MHz bands. We offer products under two brand names: BK Radio and RELM. Generally, BK Radio-branded products serve the government and public safety market, while RELM-branded products serve the business and industrial market. BK Radio-branded products consist of high-specification land-mobile radio equipment for professional radio users primarily in government and public safety applications. These products have more extensive features and capabilities than those offered in the RELM and RELM/BK lines. Our P-25 digital products are marketed under the BK Radio brand, which includes the next-generation KNG product line that was launched in 2008 and is currently being expanded. RELM-branded products provide basic, inexpensive, yet feature-rich and reliable, two-way communications for commercial and industrial concerns, such as hotels, construction firms, schools, and transportation services. Typically these users are not radio professionals, and require easy, fast and inexpensive communication among a defined group of users. We provide superior products and value to a wide array of customers with demanding requirements; including, for example, emergency, public safety, homeland security and military customers of federal and state government agencies, as well as various commercial enterprises. Our two-way radio products excel in applications with harsh and hazardous conditions. They offer high-specification performance, durability and reliability at a low cost relative to comparable offerings. Our principal executive offices are located at 7100 Technology Drive, West Melbourne, Florida 32904 and the telephone number is (321) 984-1414. Available Information Our Internet website address is www.relm.com . We make available on our Internet website free of charge our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports as soon as practicable after we electronically file and/or furnish such material with or to the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available at our website. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in this report. A copy of any of these materials also may be obtained, free of charge, upon request from our investor relations department. Significant Events of 2010 and 2011 In February 2011, we announced the successful completion of P25 interoperability tests on P25 Trunking Infrastructure provided by Tait and EADS corporations. Testing was completed on the TaitNet P25 / EADS COR P25 Network at Tait Electronics Teltest Laboratories facility in Houston, TX. Teltest is recognized by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to conduct P25 interoperability testing as part of the P25 Compliance Assessment Program (CAP). In November and March 2010, we also announced the successful completion of P25 1 interoperability tests on Motorola s and EF Johnson s P25 Infrastructure. All of this testing was conducted as part of the formal P25 Compliance Assessment Program (CAP). The P25 CAP is a result of legislation passed by the U.S. Congress to improve communication interoperability for first responders and is a partnership of the Department of Homeland Security s (DHS) Command, Control and Interoperability Division, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, radio equipment manufacturers, and the emergency response community. The P25 CAP establishes a process for ensuring that equipment complies with P25 standards and is capable of interoperating across manufacturers. In January 2011, our newest P25 digital mobile radios, the BK Radio KNG M400 and M500, received equipment authorization from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for use in the United States. The KNG M400 and M500 provide interoperability under APCO Project 25. In January 2011, we received a $1.5 million contract order from the U.S. Department of Agriculture Forest Service (USFS) for portable and mobile radio units. The order, which includes our D-Series digital P-25 radios, will be fulfilled through the first quarter of 2011. In November 2010, we received a blanket purchase agreement (BPA) from the U.S. Navy. This BPA includes our trunked KNG portable radios, mobile radios, repeaters and related accessories, operating in the VHF, UHF and 700/800MHz frequency bands. The BPA has a maximum value of $5.5 million, with a term that commenced on October 28, 2010 and expires on October 27, 2015. The BPA does not specify purchase dates or quantities of equipment. In October 2010, we amended our revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB). Among other changes, the maximum borrowing availability was increased to $5.0 million from $3.5 million, the maturity date was extended to December 31, 2012, and the variable rate at which borrowings bear interest was reduced to prime rate plus 50 basis points. In September 2010, we introduced the first trunked versions of our KNG-line of digital P-25 radio models. Trunked units were then immediately available in the VHF, UHF and 700-800 MHz frequencies. These products expand our addressable market and enable us to compete for a wider range of opportunities. In August and September 2010, we received orders totaling approximately $4.3 million from several different branches of the U. S. Military, of which approximately $2.7 million was for our new P25 trunked portable and mobile radios. These orders included products for all the major frequencies; VHF, UHF and 800MHz. In July 2010, our KNG M150 mobile radio received equipment authorization from the FCC for use in the United States. The KNG M150 provides interoperability under APCO Project 25. In April 2010, we were awarded a contract from the USFS to service and repair our two-way land mobile radios. The initial period of the contract is one year, which commenced on April 16, 2010, and may be extended for up to four additional one-year periods. The estimated maximum value of the contract is $500,000 but may vary depending on the agency s needs. The contract provides for service on an as-needed and when-needed basis. In April 2010, we were selected as one of several suppliers of P25 digital two-way radio subscriber equipment to the City of Phoenix, AZ. The initial period of the contract spans five years, which commenced on March 15, 2010, and may be extended for up to five additional one-year periods. The estimated total value of the initial contract period is $6 million, but may be higher or lower depending on the city s needs and budgets. The contract did not specify purchase dates or quantities of equipment from any particular supplier. In February 2010, we received an order totaling approximately $6.6 million from the USFS for our D-Series digital P25 portable and mobile radios. We fulfilled this order during the first and second quarter of 2010. Industry Overview Land mobile radio (LMR) communications consist of hand-held (portable) and mobile (vehicle mounted) two-way radios commonly used by the public safety sector (e.g., police, fire, and emergency responders), 2 commercial business concerns (e.g., corporate disaster recovery, hotels, airports, farms, transportation service providers, and construction firms), and government agencies within the United States and abroad. LMR systems are constructed to meet an organization s specific communication needs. The cost of a complete system can vary widely depending on the size and configuration. Likewise, the cost of radio sets can range from under $200 for a basic analog portable, to thousands of dollars for a fully featured P-25 digital unit. Typically, there are no recurring airtime usage charges. Accordingly, LMR usage patterns are considerably different from those for cellular and other wireless communications tools. LMR usage is characterized by frequent calls of short duration. A typical user may transmit and receive 20 to 50 calls per day, with most calls lasting less than 30 seconds. The average useful life of a unit can vary, depending upon the application in whi ch the unit is deployed and its handling. LMR systems are the most widely-used and longest-used form of wireless dispatch communications in the United States, having been first placed in service in 1921. LMR was initially used almost exclusively by law enforcement, and all radio communications were transmitted in an analog format. Analog transmissions typically consist of a voice or other signal modulated directly onto a continuous radio carrier wave. Over time, advances in technology decreased the cost of LMR products and increased its popularity and usage by businesses and other agencies. To respond to the growing usage, additional radio frequency spectrum was allocated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for LMR use. In recent years the LMR industry has typically been characterized by slow growth, reflecting several factors: LMR is a mature industry, having been in existence for almost 90 years; some LMR users are in mature industry segments that have experienced slow growth rates; and most significantly, growth has been hampered by the lack of available radio frequency spectrum, which has prevented existing users from expanding their systems and hindered efforts of many potential new users from obtaining licenses for new systems. Years ago, as a result of the limited spectrum availability, the FCC mandated that new LMR equipment utilize technology that is more spectrum-efficient. This effectively meant that the industry had to migrate to digital technology. Responding to the mandate, the Association of Public Safety Communications Officials (APCO), in concert with several LMR manufacturers, including RELM, recommended a standard for digital LMR devices that would meet the FCC spectrum-efficiency requirements and provide solutions to several problems experienced primarily by public safety users. The standard is called Project 25. The primary objectives of Project 25 are to: i) allow effective and reliable communication among users of compliant equipment, regardless of its manufacturer, known as interoperability, ii) maximize radio spectrum efficiency, and iii) promote competition among LMR providers through an open system architecture. Although the FCC does not require public safety agencies or any radio users to purchase P-25 equipment or otherwise adopt the standard, compliance with the standard is a primary consideration for government and public safety purchasers. Accordingly, although LMR spending for many federal government agencies increased slightly during 2010 following declines in 2009 and 2008, we anticipate that demand for P-25 equipment will steadily and meaningfully increase and ultimately fuel LMR market growth as users upgrade equipment to achieve interoperability and comply with the FCC mandate. Presently, the migration to P-25 equipment is primarily limited to government and public safety agencies. Radio users in the business and industrial market continue to utilize predominantly analog LMR products. By some estimates, the North American LMR market for infrastructure and subscriber units is approximately $5 billion in annual sales. Presently, the market is dominated by one supplier, Motorola Solutions, Inc. However, the open architecture of the P-25 standard is designed to eliminate the ability of one or more suppliers to lockout competitors. Formerly, because of proprietary characteristics incorporated in many analog LMR systems, a customer was effectively precluded from purchasing additional LMR products from a supplier other than the initial supplier of the system. Additionally, the system infrastructure technology was prohibitive for smaller suppliers to develop. P-25 provides an environment in which users will increasingly have a wider selection of LMR suppliers, including smaller suppliers such as RELM. 3 Description of Products We design, manufacture, and market wireless communications equipment consisting of two-way land mobile radios, repeaters, base stations, and related components and subsystems. We do not provide complete, integrated, communications systems and infrastructure. Two-way land mobile radios can be units that are hand-held (portable) or installed in vehicles (mobile). Repeaters expand the range of two-way land mobile radios, enabling them to communicate over a wider area. Base station components and subsystems are installed at radio transmitter sites to improve performance by enhancing the signal, reducing or eliminating signal interference and enabling the use of one antenna for both transmission and reception. We employ both analog and digital technologies in our products. Our digital products are compliant with P-25 specifications. Our P-25 digital products and our analog products function in the VHF (136MHz 174MHz), UHF (380MHz 470MHz, 450MHz 520MHz) and 800 MHz bands. Description of Markets Government and Public Safety Market The government and public safety market includes the military, fire, rescue, law enforcement, homeland security and emergency responder personnel. In most instances, BK Radio-branded products serve this market and are sold either directly to end-users, or through two-way communications dealers. Government and public safety sales represented approximately 92%, 94% and 86% of our total sales for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Government and public safety users currently use products that employ either P-25 digital or analog technology. However, public safety users in federal, state and local government agencies and certain other countries are migrating at an increasing rate to digital P-25 products. The evolution of the standard and compliant digital products is explained in the Industry Overview section starting on page 2 of this report. Business and Industrial Market This market includes enterprises of all sizes that require fast and affordable, push-to-talk communication among a discrete group of users such as corporate disaster recovery, hotels, construction firms, schools, and transportation service providers. Users in this market continue to predominantly utilize analog products. We offer products to this market under the RELM brand name. Our sales in this market may be direct to end-users or to dealers and distributors who then resell the products. Our sales to this market represented approximately 8%, 6% and 14% of our total sales for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Engineering, Research and Development Our engineering and product development activities are conducted by a team of 20 employees combined with contract engineering resources. Their primary development focus is the design of our line of next generation P-25 digital products, the KNG Series, and related capabilities. The first models in the KNG line were introduced in 2008 and are included on our primary federal contract vehicles. Subsequently we added UHF and 800MHz products, as well as P-25 trunking in 2010. Our first P-25 digital product, named the DPH, was introduced to the market in 2003. Shortly thereafter, the DPH was added to the contract to supply agencies of the U.S. Department of Interior with digital two-way communications equipment. A segment of our engineering team is responsible for product specifications based on customer requirements and supervising quality assurance activities. They also have primary responsibility for applied engineering, production engineering and the specification compliance of contract manufacturers. For 2010, 2009 and 2008, our engineering and development expenses were approximately $4.9 million, $3.6 million and $4.5 million, respectively. Intellectual Property We presently have no United States patents in force. We hold several trademarks related to the names RELM and BK Radio and certain product names. We also rely on trade secret laws and employee and third party non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. 4 Manufacturing and Raw Materials Our manufacturing strategy is to utilize the highest quality and most cost effective resources available for every aspect of our manufacturing. Consistent with that strategy, for many years we have successfully utilized outside contract arrangements for different segments of our manufacturing operations. These arrangements, some of which are with offshore concerns, have been managed and updated to meet our present requirements, and they continue to be instrumental in controlling our product costs, allowing us to improve our competitive position and manage our gross margins. Contract manufacturers produce various subassemblies and products on our behalf. Generally, the contract manufacturers procure raw materials from RELM-approved sources and complete manufacturing activities in accordance with our specifications. Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) agreements govern the business relationship with each contract manufacturer. These agreements typically have various terms and may be renewed upon agreement by both parties. The scope of these agreements may also be expanded to include new products in the future. We plan to continue utilizing contract manufacturing where it furthers our business objectives. This strategy allows us to focus on our core technological competencies of product design and development, and to reduce the substantial capital investment required to manufacture our products. We also believe that our use of experienced, high-volume manufacturers will provide greater manufacturing specialization and expertise, higher levels of flexibility and responsiveness, and faster delivery of product; all of which contributes toward minimized product costs. To ensure that products manufactured by others meet our quality standards, our production and engineering team works closely with our ISO 9002 industry-qualified contract manufacturers in all key aspects of the production process. We establish product specifications, select the components and, in some cases, the suppliers. We retain all document control. We also work with our contract manu facturers to improve process control and product design, and conduct periodic on-site inspections. We rely upon a limited number of both domestic and foreign suppliers for several key products and components. We place purchase orders from time to time with these suppliers and have no guaranteed supply arrangements. In addition, we obtain certain components from a single source. During 2010, 2009 or 2008, our operations were not materially impaired due to delays from single source suppliers. However, the absence of a single source component could potentially delay the manufacture of finished products. We manage the risk of such delays by securing secondary sources and redesigning products in response to component shortages or obsolescence. We strive to maintain strong relations with all our suppliers. We anticipate that the current relationships, or others that are comparable, will be available to us in the future. Seasonal Impact We experience seasonality in our results in part due to governmental customer spending patterns that are influenced by government fiscal year-end budgets and appropriations. We also experience seasonality in our results in part due to our concentration of sales to federal and state agencies that participate in fire-suppression efforts, which are typically the greatest during the summer season when forest fire activity is heightened. In some years, these factors may cause an increase in sales for the second and third quarters compared with the first and fourth quarters of the same fiscal year. Such increases in sales may cause quarterly variances in our cash flow from operations and overall financial condition. Significant Customers Sales to the United States Government represented approximately 70%, 60% and 42% of our total sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These sales were primarily to various government agencies, including those within the United States Department of Defense (DOD), the United States Forest Service (USFS) and the United States Department of the Interior (DOI). Backlog Our backlog of unshipped customer orders was approximately $5.6 million, $3.2 million and $2.6 million as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 5 Competition We compete with many domestic and foreign companies primarily in the North American market. One dominant competitor, Motorola Solutions, Inc., holds a significant market share. We compete by capitalizing on our advantages and strengths, which include price, product quality, and customer responsiveness. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had 96 full-time employees, most of whom are located at our West Melbourne, Florida facility; 50 of these employees are engaged in direct manufacturing or manufacturing support, 20 in engineering, 17 in sales and marketing, and 9 in headquarters, accounting and human resources activities. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreements, nor has there ever been a labor-related work stoppage. We believe our relations with our employees are good. Information Relating to Domestic and Export Sales The following table summarizes our sales of LMR products by customer location: 6 "
